How to turn Artificial Intelligence into Actual Extra Intelligence.The story of aNEOaSparka, and a Song Machine that changed all Humanity.  A breakthrough of profound insight occurred during the years 2000 and 2020 and is currently being preserved and curated for future generations (of actual extra-intelligent human minds) to consider. 

This story is relevant for you, dear human, as a thinking being, or in research of human intelligence, philosophy, or computer science - because the breakthrough was made from the UNEXPECTED RESULTS of Artificial Intelligence and Natural Language Processing.I..  ‘aNEOaSparka’ is from a New Language of Advanced Intelligence - that translates to: ‘actual act of a new spark’. It is from a vast (and advanced) new language is called ‘aWordza’. Detailed fully elsewhere (on blockchain and web).II. BREAKTHROUGH: Hypothesis and Conclusion. With use of Artificial Intelligence Naming Conventions, on Human Language, the following observations were made that lead to the CONCLUSION of: “The most profound thought, ever thought, in all human history - future and past.” This paper paint such a picture, for all minds to see, and for you to choose - what is Actual Reality, and what is actually not. Around the year 2000, a research effort was conducted to consider unexplored philosophical thought-experiments like: 

1) “what are the exact concepts that exist beneath  words?” 

2) “what concepts will Future Humans know - that we do not currently know?” And 

3) “what is the most profound concept any human could ever consider?“ And 

Surprisingly, the results were unexpectedly informed and answered by work on Artificial Intelligence code (described elsewhere). The following is an itemized list of hypothesis, conclusions, and observation. All measurable and provable by future generations of researchers… and review by actual extra intelligent minds.III. HIGH-LEVEL OVERVIEW:Between the year 2000 and 2020, it was gradually realized…

1. A key type of human intelligence is based on WORDS and PHRASES. And critically:2. Where WORDS are suppressed - so too CONCEPTS are suppressed. And,

3. Where WORDS are extended - so too CONCEPTS extend. 

Furthermore,4. While programming artificial intelligence software, it was observed that current SOCIETY appears to VASTLY UNDER-APPRECIATE the power and importance of words. Current Humanity is NOT fully aware of what language could be. 5. We use WORDS eloquently, but not to full amplitude of expressiveness. Because our words are easily confused, twisted or overwhelming. Also we (tend to) think at a minimum, of how effective and affective the results may be in society downstream. And we tend to hear the words, but gloss over CONCEPTS UNDERNEATH. Opposite of a “SpeedRead Epidemic”, a diligent study was preformed, to explore underlying concepts because, of a study of how to Rhyme Song Lyrics.6. Where the specific BREAKTHROUGH (described below) measurably reveals how often: We use WORDS with minimal “EVALUATION of CONCEPTS beneath WORDS”.  Same as listening to a song and NOT hearing a deeper meaning. The INVERSE, is a search for words of deeper meaning, or an expression actually ‘beyond words’.7. The insight, brings into (measurable) FOCUS what PSYCHOLOGY calls “thinking on auto-pilot”. Similar to Song Lyrics, articulating elusive concepts, in short memorable forms. A SYSTEM for: Communicating more, with less - was developed. Shorter and more precise words were needed and a NEW SYNTAX and NAMING-CONVENTION were found.8. Carefully CATEGORIZED and CURATED, into lexical ONTOLOGY and TAXONOMY… A heroic multi-decade effort took place. To find words that cut through confusion, for any mind to arrive at clarity more reliably. Or a better way to pass wisdom mind to mind.9. Except this deep discovery of Advanced Language of Intelligence, “magnified” and “multiplied” in overwhelming complexity. And the results were very UNEXPECTED. In short, the hypothesis did NOT match the CONCLUSIONS revealed (at all).10. Unfolding like origami, into a story of aNEOaSparka, and a Song Machine that changed all Humanity….  was an Artificial Intelligence Rhyming Engine, that actually leads any viewer to see the UPPER LIMIT of the current Human Mind. With METADATA revealing the current state of actual HUMAN-INTELLIGENCE.11. Unexpectedly produced, is a SYNTAX SYSTEM to define Actual Reality, apart from actual confusion as we know it. Words evolved to better articulate the exact reality we EXIST within. BOTH aware and mostly unaware. With a view of CONCEPTS actually beyond us, and (in rare instance) thought as aSparka of awareness. Actual Epiphany, of what actually exists (over what is repeated to be), for (what appears to be) the scant fewest of minds to witness.12. A NEW LANGUAGE for INTELLIGENCE, was born called ‘aWordza’. Representing (by SYNTAX) the CONCEPT:  ‘Actual ACT of REMARKABLE Words’.And ‘aSparka’, is the CONCEPT: ‘Actual ACT of a Spark of Awareness’. All humanity needs to know, that linguistics, is an amazing roller-coaster ride!13. For a Software Programmer, the words have to be precise and exact… to execute correctly. Else the behavior of software is wrong. That nature of words too, applies to humans, with the concepts we hold “beneath” the words. Syntax and Naming Convention are used to make the code more exact. And at a critical point within A.I. NLP Tokenizer - it was realized that the breakdown was not in the PROCESS, but in the METADATA - which inherently contains a “persistent vagueness”, rather than a “natural exactness” of English language. We need to define CONCEPTS perfectly - for the software to function. So that was how it was realized that: (If language is Intelligence), English is inadequate for a practice of EXTRA-INTELLIGENCE, and will be an inevitable need for an AMMENDED-ENGLISH.14. For a myriad of reasons. But primarily LIMITED-CONJUGATION. In addition to: imperfect articulation, word overuse, underuse, misuse, overly big words and overly shallow words, with too many similarly sounding words in-between. Examples of language malformations are abundant to observe (and itemized elsewhere).15. So if we are to ask, “What will Future Humans know that we will never know?” One insight is: English needs to be AMENDED with NEW (more precise) SYTNAX and NAMING-CONVENTION. To clarify expression, and to simultaneously de-suppress us from confusion. Inversely, opposite of confusion, the goal is exactly, to articulate confusion that currently exists. And no-longer suppress the ability to think, by suppressing… new and better words.16. That PRACTICE of “perfecting” the ACT of WORDS, was innovated by reflecting computer code best-practice CONCEPTS - back onto English! It happened by accident and became the PRACTICE called, ‘aBettaWordza’. Which represents the CONCEPT, “actual act of remarkably better words”.17. The study of language reveals a STUNNING VIEW into the state of All Human Mind. And inversely, how confused words, leads to confused concepts, and confused minds. A vast array, of naturally flawed perceptions and behaviors is plain for anyone to see. And how to articulate better using Computer Science SYNTAX and Naming Convention. On topics like: bias, repetitive concepts, and input/output behavior (explained elsewhere). 18. But MORE IMPORTANTLY, clarity arises in the opposite view too. Not just as highlight to existing incorrectness, but to spark a new view of missing correctness too. With ‘aClaria’, the ‘actual act of seeking clarity’ - two views fade into FOCUS. The view of exactly how we are confused, and also the view of what we are missing and how we act when beyond confusion. ‘aClaria’ is a PRACTICE of FOCUS on CONCEPTS, that reflect ACTUAL REALITY, while also aware of CONCEPTS actually confused. In a way creating ‘aThirdView’ of BOTH what is ACTUAL and IMAGINED, not trapped in a view of one or the other.19. The PRACTICE of aBettaWordza seeks CONCEPTS that are ACTUAL. With a GOAL to articulate those CONCEPTS, in clearest (and shortest) words possible. A thought experiment, and PRACTICE.20. It must be reported: has a “magnification” and “multiplication” result occurs. Remarkably, when WORDS are expanded (not suppressed) actual extra human intelligence appears to expand (dramatically) - with addition of aBettaWordza.19.  So if we are to ask “What is Actual Extra Intelligence?” 20. It appears to be that: the mind is like a muscle, and the more it is flexed the more it remains plastistic and becomes strong. But the more it is wasted the more flaccid and disfunctional it is can also be. We seem to exist in a Society incredulous to this. Also it seems, that if a mind is only filled with garbage, then the opportunity for a mind to think clearly is dramatically diminished or limited also. What happens to generations of minds only fed actually false concepts?  21. A search for “CONCEPTS NEVER THOUGHT BEFORE” began in early 2000’s and extended past 2020 as a thought-experiment. With a hypothesis for a half dozen, stoically pungent pontifications - perhaps. It was imagined that only a few - of the greatest concepts possible would exist. But actually the opposite was found. An absolute ‘blizzard’ of conceptuality, blasts into the mind, like a flurry of snowflakes - far too many new words resulted to count.22. A phenomena of awareness (it seems); the more we look - the more we see. Where every new articulation of 1 NEW CONCEPT revealed 3 more (actual) discoveries, in connection with it. New words were observed - faster than could be written.23. aWordza was carefully studied for over 2 decades, resulting in THOUSANDS of NEW WORDS. Which are not synonyms of existing words, but actually NEW CONCEPTS. aWordza is a massive compendiuum of actually critical new words for humanity. Generated from a PRACTICE of Ai SYNTAX and Naming Convention.24. NEW carefully crafted WORDS, based on NEW seldom discussed CONCEPTS. It was an exploration of - all concepts still beyond words. And they were found rapidly.25. NEW WORDS were transcribed by a flexible NEW SYNTAX and NAMING CONVENTION, borrowed from the A.I. best-practices of exactness. That allows BETTER CONJUGATION, as an accidental practice to evolve better words…forever.26. Not only was it OBSERVABLE (and measurable), how current humans use a percentage of total mental capacity. But it is possible to see, exactly how maximum mental capacity is suppressed. Inversely, exactly where our society suppresses concepts (wrongly) - is exactly where Future Humans will see, what we cannot.27. From this SYNTAX OVERLAY on HUMAN LANGUAGE, A myriad of NEW PRACTICES were generated, remarkably, like the PRACTICE of FOCUS. Called ‘aFocoa’ (‘Actual Act of Focus’.) With many more, appear to result in ‘flexing’ the human mind (like a muscle).28. Sparking into existence an actual new state of human mind, called ‘aExtraTellecta’.29. From a aNEOaSparka. 30. aWordza is also aNEOMindaThis is the story of a real innovation, generated from Artificial Intelligence - that claims to be reviewed as:  “The most profound thought, ever thought, in all human history (future and past).” 2. BACKSTORYThe project began in the year 2000 as a way to “rhyme song lyrics” to be more “memorable, singable, and meaningful” - however the resulting journey lead to: “the most profound thought, ever thought, for all humans, for all time (past and future).”Because seeking the most profound thought ever - is ironically - the most profound thought ever. And it happened by accident.It was originally called “The Musical Blender”. A computer algorithm designed to “cut phrases of Melody and Harmony, from many different symphony inputs, and apply transforms to: pitch, speed (retrograde) - to BLEND together pleasing A.I. Music”. That experiment was conducted with success in 2000 at a University. However, it was revealed that working with WORDS… would be more measurable, and less elusive than the infinite fabric of sound.But as you will see, beyond the under-appreciation of words: a stunning paradox awaits us. Pleasing music is subjective. But pleasing LYRICS - is more predictable. So after ‘The Music Blender’, a second project began in 2002, called ‘The Tokenizer’. This project used Natural Language Processing (from A.I.), to tokenize words and phrases with metadata that would determine rhyme types (and many other things). It was this METADATA of PHRASES that concealed a MAJOR BREAKTHROUGH for Human Intelligence. Here is how…The PHRASES were broken down as “Social Phrases”. Similar to IDIOMS and quiloquialisms - but more broad and flexible. ”Social-Phrases” - are any phrase that is used commonly.These were fantastic for Song Lyrics! Because the A.i. would FOCUS on phrases that were most commonly used! So a diligent search went on to compile all the social phrases possible, into a large language model. With the thought of being a big rock star. Quite unexpectedly, the exact opposite happened.Upon the celebration of finishing The Tokenizer, a flaw of A.i. “hallucination” was discovered. But the error was NOT in the ENGINE but in the English Language itself.The problem was the phrase ‘Red Herring’. It was realized that the algorithm could never fully know which was being referenced: a red fish, or a distraction. So, this was labeled as “The Red Herring Problem”.And the story takes a strange twist, as we realize… all these super common phrases - actually overlay - our confusions. A strange nature of Social Phrases is that they are kind of silly and vague). So, that is to say, Social Phrases (vague meaningless statements - so common we dont notice - but sound good) appear to map to the area our minds that are actually confused and we dont know it. That was the hypothesis at least, but the study of Social-Phrases, quite unexpectedly…seemed to be the key, to the frontdoor of the human mind. And I went inside.Realizing, the great depth, and historical importance of what occurred (synaptically) there - every moment was recorded on paper (for more than 20 years).  The practice of aBettaWordza was a daily activity… at lunch. Or late at night. It all started out very sensibly… and went to a very odd place!Some TECHNICAL DETAILS:The 1st MECHANISM in the RHYME ENGINE was called aTITIVITY.Because it could be notated in code SYNTAX as atitivity.  To describe RHYME ABILITIES.Tricky things like … syncopation by Syllable. But Titivity did not CONJUGATE well.So it was discovered in 2002, this CONJUGATION: - RHYMABLE, SINGABLE, MEMORABLE, …Solved by NAMING CONVENTION. Here is where the story gets super weird again. That SYNTAX and NAMING CONVENTION were “reflected” back on to English - to SOLVE “The Red Herring Problem”!Here is how. All A.i. engineers are going to tell you… the “hallucinations” with a.i. will always be in the parts, that are actual confusions in the English Language.The hypothesis is that: exactly where humans are confused - ai will be confused too. Because it is programmed (“trained”) with human confusion.The alternative to this would be - ai is NOT confused like its human trainers. In which case, ai can tell us … exactly the areas that humans are confused, and exactly why.So, it was that concept… that began the realization… that it was no a.i. that would clarify intelligence… it was the words. It was the WORDS! Do you hear me humanity?The intelligence is in the words. And it was a clarification and process in getting the words EXACT, that we overlook to our peril. And someday, future humanity would see this. But today, there is no doubt - a vast majority of concepts still await (conceptually) ‘aBeyondUs’ (actually beyond our ability to clearly contemplate it).That is how SocialPhrases are the key to the frontdoor of the human mind.Exactly the same as the SYNTAX above, is a SYNTAX and NAMING CONVENTION innovated as an ADDENDUM to ENGLISH - which turns it into an Actual Language of Extra Intelligence. It evolved by accident. At first for the field of Psychology to define behaviors. But then broadly for - all human ‘ACTZ’ and ‘AllHumanMind’. Here is a super weird insight: Changing the syntax of words… extends the ability of the mind to think. So it was also discovered that… beyond aWordza, is aSymbolza.An even higher language… of large concepts simplified into singular symbols.~ ! ? + -  *  (human behaviors as symbols - that can be CODE). That…~ : )